reference/index.md, before:

# Package index

## All functions

- [`control.iglm()`](control.iglm.md) : Set Control Parameters for iglm
  Estimation
- [`count_statistics()`](count_statistics.md) : Compute Statistics
- [`iglm()`](iglm.md) : Construct a iglm Model Specification Object
- [`iglm_object_generator`](iglm_object_generator.md) : An R6 class for
  Network GLM (Generalized Linear Model) Objects
- [`model_terms`](model_terms.md) [`terms`](model_terms.md) : Model
  specification for a \`iglm' object
- [`netplus()`](netplus.md) : Constructor for the netplus R6 object
- [`netplus_generator`](netplus_generator.md) : A R6 class to represent
  networks with unit-level attributes
- [`results()`](results.md) : Constructor for the results R6 Object
- [`results_generator`](results_generator.md) : R6 Class for Storing
  iglm Estimation and Simulation Results
- [`rice`](rice.md) : A network of friendships between students at Rice
  University.
- [`sampler.iglm()`](sampler.iglm.md) : Constructor for a iglm Sampler
- [`sampler.net_attr()`](sampler.net_attr.md) : Constructor for Single
  Component Sampler Settings
- [`sampler_iglm_generator`](sampler_iglm_generator.md)
  [`sampler_iglm`](sampler_iglm_generator.md) : R6 Class for iglm
  Sampler Settings
- [`sampler_net_attr_generator`](sampler_net_attr_generator.md) : R6
  Class for Single Component Sampler Settings
- [`simulate_iglm()`](simulate_iglm.md) : Simulate responses and
  connections
- [`state_twitter`](state_twitter.md) : Twitter (X) data list for U.S.
  state legislators (10-state subset)

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ corneliusfritz/iglm@48a69e7a2e805835757ed9f1e8f2e37294059715 🚀

reference/index.md, after:

# Package index

## All functions

- [`control.iglm()`](control.iglm.md) : Set Control Parameters for iglm
  Estimation
- [`count_statistics()`](count_statistics.md) : Compute Statistics
- [`iglm()`](iglm.md) : Construct a iglm Model Specification Object
- [`iglm_data()`](iglm_data.md) : Constructor for the iglm_data R6
  object
- [`iglm_data_generator`](iglm_data_generator.md) : A R6 class to
  represent networks with unit-level attributes
- [`iglm_object_generator`](iglm_object_generator.md) : An R6 class for
  Network GLM (Generalized Linear Model) Objects
- [`model_terms`](model_terms.md) [`terms`](model_terms.md) : Model
  specification for a \`iglm' object
- [`results()`](results.md) : Constructor for the results R6 Object
- [`results_generator`](results_generator.md) : R6 Class for Storing
  iglm Estimation and Simulation Results
- [`rice`](rice.md) : A network of friendships between students at Rice
  University.
- [`sampler.iglm()`](sampler.iglm.md) : Constructor for a iglm Sampler
- [`sampler.net_attr()`](sampler.net_attr.md) : Constructor for Single
  Component Sampler Settings
- [`sampler_iglm_generator`](sampler_iglm_generator.md)
  [`sampler_iglm`](sampler_iglm_generator.md) : R6 Class for iglm
  Sampler Settings
- [`sampler_net_attr_generator`](sampler_net_attr_generator.md) : R6
  Class for Single Component Sampler Settings
- [`simulate_iglm()`](simulate_iglm.md) : Simulate responses and
  connections
- [`state_twitter`](state_twitter.md) : Twitter (X) data list for U.S.
  state legislators (10-state subset)
