reference/results_generator.md, before:

# R6 Class for Storing iglm Estimation and Simulation Results

The \`results\` class stores estimation (\`\$estimate()\`) and
simulation (\`\$simulate()\`) results.

This class is primarily intended for internal use within the \`iglm\`
framework but provides structured access to the results via the active
bindings of the main \`iglm_object\`.

## Active bindings

- `coefficients_path`:

  (\`matrix\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. The path of all estimated
  coefficients across iterations.

- `samples`:

  (\`list\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. A list of simulated \`iglm.data\`
  objects (class \`iglm.data.list\`).

- `stats`:

  (\`matrix\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Matrix of summary statistics for
  simulated samples.

- `var`:

  (\`matrix\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Estimated variance-covariance
  matrix for non-popularity coefficients.

- `fisher_popularity`:

  (\`matrix\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Fisher information matrix for
  popularity coefficients.

- `fisher_nonpopularity`:

  (\`matrix\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Fisher information matrix for
  non-popularity coefficients.

- `score_popularity`:

  (\`numeric\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Score vector for popularity
  coefficients.

- `score_nonpopularity`:

  (\`numeric\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Score vector for non-popularity
  coefficients.

- `llh`:

  (\`numeric\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Vector of log-likelihood values
  recorded during estimation.

- `model_assessment`:

  (\`list\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Results from model assessment
  (goodness-of-fit).

- `estimated`:

  (\`logical\`) Read-only. Flag indicating if estimation has been
  completed.

## Methods

### Public methods

- [`results_generator$new()`](#method-results-new)

- [`results_generator$set_model_assessment()`](#method-results-set_model_assessment)

- [`results_generator$gather()`](#method-results-gather)

- [`results_generator$save()`](#method-results-save)

- [`results_generator$resize()`](#method-results-resize)

- [`results_generator$update()`](#method-results-update)

- [`results_generator$remove_samples()`](#method-results-remove_samples)

- [`results_generator$plot()`](#method-results-plot)

- [`results_generator$print()`](#method-results-print)

- [`results_generator$clone()`](#method-results-clone)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `new()`

Creates a new \`results\` object. Initializes internal fields, primarily
setting up an empty matrix for the \`coefficients_path\` based on the
expected number of coefficients.

#### Usage

    results_generator$new(size_coef, size_coef_popularity, file)

#### Arguments

- `size_coef`:

  (integer) The number of non-popularity (structural) coefficients in
  the model.

- `size_coef_popularity`:

  (integer) The number of popularity coefficients in the model (0 if
  none).

- `file`:

  (character or \`NULL\`) If provided, loads the sampler state from the
  specified .rds file instead of initializing from parameters.

#### Returns

A new \`results\` object, initialized to hold results for a model with
the specified dimensions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `set_model_assessment()`

Stores the results object generated by a model assessment
(goodness-of-fit) procedure within this \`results\` container.

#### Usage

    results_generator$set_model_assessment(res)

#### Arguments

- `res`:

  An object containing the model assessment results, expected to have
  the class \`iglm_model_assessment\`.

#### Returns

The \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly. Called for its side
effect of storing the assessment results.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `gather()`

Gathers the current state of the \`results\` object into a list for
saving or inspection. This includes all internal fields such as
coefficient paths, samples, statistics, variance-covariance matrix,
Fisher information, score vectors, log-likelihood values, model
assessment results, and estimation status.

#### Usage

    results_generator$gather()

#### Returns

A list containing all the internal fields of the \`results\` object.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method [`save()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/save.html)

Saves the current state of the \`results\` object to a specified file
path in RDS format. This allows for persisting the results for later
retrieval and analysis.

#### Usage

    results_generator$save(file)

#### Arguments

- `file`:

  (character) The file path where the results state should be saved.
  Must be a valid character string.

#### Returns

The \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `resize()`

Resizes the internal storage for the coefficient paths to accommodate a
different number of coefficients. This is useful if the model structure
changes and the results object needs to be reset.

#### Usage

    results_generator$resize(size_coef, size_coef_popularity)

#### Arguments

- `size_coef`:

  (integer) The new number of non-popularity coefficients.

- `size_coef_popularity`:

  (integer) The new number of popularity coefficients. @return The
  \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method [`update()`](https://rdrr.io/r/stats/update.html)

Updates the internal fields of the \`results\` object with new outputs,
typically after an estimation run (\`\$estimate()\`) or simulation run
(\`\$simulate()\`). Allows selectively updating components. Appends to
\`coefficients_path\` and \`llh\` if called multiple times after
estimation. Replaces \`samples\` and \`stats\`.

#### Usage

    results_generator$update(
      coefficients_path = NULL,
      samples = NULL,
      var = NULL,
      fisher_popularity = NULL,
      fisher_nonpopularity = NULL,
      score_popularity = NULL,
      score_nonpopularity = NULL,
      llh = NULL,
      stats = NULL,
      estimated = FALSE
    )

#### Arguments

- `coefficients_path`:

  (matrix) A matrix where rows represent iterations and columns
  represent all coefficients (non-popularity then popularity), showing
  their values during estimation. If provided, appends to any existing
  path.

- `samples`:

  (list) A list of simulated \`iglm.data\` objects (class
  \`iglm.data.list\`). If provided, replaces any existing samples.

- `var`:

  (matrix) The estimated variance-covariance matrix for the
  non-popularity coefficients. Replaces existing matrix.

- `fisher_popularity`:

  (matrix) The Fisher information matrix for popularity coefficients.
  Replaces existing matrix.

- `fisher_nonpopularity`:

  (matrix) The Fisher information matrix for non-popularity
  coefficients. Replaces existing matrix.

- `score_popularity`:

  (numeric) The score vector for popularity coefficients. Replaces
  existing vector.

- `score_nonpopularity`:

  (numeric) The score vector for non-popularity coefficients. Replaces
  existing vector.

- `llh`:

  (numeric) Log-likelihood value(s). If provided, appends to the
  existing vector of log-likelihoods.

- `stats`:

  (matrix) A matrix of summary statistics from simulations, where rows
  correspond to simulations and columns to statistics. Replaces existing
  matrix.

- `estimated`:

  (logical) A flag indicating whether these results come from a
  completed estimation run. Updates the internal status.

#### Returns

The \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly. Called for its side
effects.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `remove_samples()`

Clears the stored simulation samples (\`.samples\`) from the object,
resetting it to an empty list. This might be used to save memory or
before running new simulations. Does not clear statistics (\`.stats\`)
or other estimation results.

#### Usage

    results_generator$remove_samples()

#### Returns

The \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method [`plot()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/plot.default.html)

Generates diagnostic plots for the estimation results. Currently plots:

- The log-likelihood path across iterations.

- The convergence paths for popularity coefficients (if present).

- The convergence paths for non-popularity coefficients.

Optionally, can also trigger plotting of model assessment results if
available.

#### Usage

    results_generator$plot(trace = FALSE, stats = FALSE, model_assessment = FALSE)

#### Arguments

- `trace`:

  (logical) If \`TRUE\` (default), plot the trace plots of the
  estimation (log-likelihood and coefficient paths). Requires model to
  be estimated.

- `stats`:

  (logical) If \`TRUE\`, plots the normalized statistics from
  simulations.

- `model_assessment`:

  (logical) If \`TRUE\`, attempts to plot the results stored in the
  \`.model_assessment\` field. Requires model assessment to have been
  run and a suitable \`plot\` method for \`iglm_model_assessment\`
  objects to exist. Default is \`FALSE\`.

#### Details

Requires estimation results (\`private\$.estimated == TRUE\`) to plot
convergence diagnostics. Requires model assessment results for the model
assessment plots.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method [`print()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/print.html)

Prints a concise summary of the contents of the \`results\` object,
indicating whether various components (coefficients path, variance
matrix, Fisher info, score, samples, stats, etc.) are available.

#### Usage

    results_generator$print(...)

#### Arguments

- `...`:

  Additional arguments (currently ignored).

#### Returns

The \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `clone()`

The objects of this class are cloneable with this method.

#### Usage

    results_generator$clone(deep = FALSE)

#### Arguments

- `deep`:

  Whether to make a deep clone.

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ corneliusfritz/iglm@af2e55e5ed467800780d921bd1deab1dbd928cf0 🚀

reference/results_generator.md, after:

# R6 Class for Storing iglm Estimation and Simulation Results

The \`results\` class stores estimation (\`\$estimate()\`) and
simulation (\`\$simulate()\`) results.

This class is primarily intended for internal use within the \`iglm\`
framework but provides structured access to the results via the active
bindings of the main \`iglm_object\`.

## Active bindings

- `coefficients_path`:

  (\`matrix\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. The path of all estimated
  coefficients across iterations.

- `samples`:

  (\`list\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. A list of simulated \`iglm.data\`
  objects (class \`iglm.data.list\`).

- `stats`:

  (\`matrix\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Matrix of summary statistics for
  simulated samples.

- `var`:

  (\`matrix\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Estimated variance-covariance
  matrix for non-popularity coefficients.

- `fisher_popularity`:

  (\`matrix\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Fisher information matrix for
  popularity coefficients.

- `fisher_nonpopularity`:

  (\`matrix\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Fisher information matrix for
  non-popularity coefficients.

- `score_popularity`:

  (\`numeric\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Score vector for popularity
  coefficients.

- `score_nonpopularity`:

  (\`numeric\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Score vector for non-popularity
  coefficients.

- `llh`:

  (\`numeric\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Vector of log-likelihood values
  recorded during estimation.

- `model_assessment`:

  (\`list\` or \`NULL\`) Read-only. Results from model assessment
  (goodness-of-fit).

- `estimated`:

  (\`logical\`) Read-only. Flag indicating if estimation has been
  completed.

## Methods

### Public methods

- [`results_generator$new()`](#method-results-new)

- [`results_generator$set_model_assessment()`](#method-results-set_model_assessment)

- [`results_generator$gather()`](#method-results-gather)

- [`results_generator$save()`](#method-results-save)

- [`results_generator$resize()`](#method-results-resize)

- [`results_generator$update()`](#method-results-update)

- [`results_generator$remove_samples()`](#method-results-remove_samples)

- [`results_generator$plot()`](#method-results-plot)

- [`results_generator$print()`](#method-results-print)

- [`results_generator$clone()`](#method-results-clone)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `new()`

Creates a new \`results\` object. Initializes internal fields, primarily
setting up an empty matrix for the \`coefficients_path\` based on the
expected number of coefficients.

#### Usage

    results_generator$new(size_coef, size_coef_popularity, file)

#### Arguments

- `size_coef`:

  (integer) The number of non-popularity (structural) coefficients in
  the model.

- `size_coef_popularity`:

  (integer) The number of popularity coefficients in the model (0 if
  none).

- `file`:

  (character or \`NULL\`) If provided, loads the sampler state from the
  specified .rds file instead of initializing from parameters.

#### Returns

A new \`results\` object, initialized to hold results for a model with
the specified dimensions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `set_model_assessment()`

Stores the results object generated by a model assessment
(goodness-of-fit) procedure within this \`results\` container.

#### Usage

    results_generator$set_model_assessment(res)

#### Arguments

- `res`:

  An object containing the model assessment results, expected to have
  the class \`iglm_model_assessment\`.

#### Returns

The \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly. Called for its side
effect of storing the assessment results.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `gather()`

Gathers the current state of the \`results\` object into a list for
saving or inspection. This includes all internal fields such as
coefficient paths, samples, statistics, variance-covariance matrix,
Fisher information, score vectors, log-likelihood values, model
assessment results, and estimation status.

#### Usage

    results_generator$gather()

#### Returns

A list containing all the internal fields of the \`results\` object.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method [`save()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/save.html)

Saves the current state of the \`results\` object to a specified file
path in RDS format. This allows for persisting the results for later
retrieval and analysis.

#### Usage

    results_generator$save(file)

#### Arguments

- `file`:

  (character) The file path where the results state should be saved.
  Must be a valid character string.

#### Returns

The \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `resize()`

Resizes the internal storage for the coefficient paths to accommodate a
different number of coefficients. This is useful if the model structure
changes and the results object needs to be reset.

#### Usage

    results_generator$resize(size_coef, size_coef_popularity)

#### Arguments

- `size_coef`:

  (integer) The new number of non-popularity coefficients.

- `size_coef_popularity`:

  (integer) The new number of popularity coefficients. @return The
  \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method [`update()`](https://rdrr.io/r/stats/update.html)

Updates the internal fields of the \`results\` object with new outputs,
typically after an estimation run (\`\$estimate()\`) or simulation run
(\`\$simulate()\`). Allows selectively updating components. Appends to
\`coefficients_path\` and \`llh\` if called multiple times after
estimation. Replaces \`samples\` and \`stats\`.

#### Usage

    results_generator$update(
      coefficients_path = NULL,
      samples = NULL,
      var = NULL,
      fisher_popularity = NULL,
      fisher_nonpopularity = NULL,
      score_popularity = NULL,
      score_nonpopularity = NULL,
      llh = NULL,
      stats = NULL,
      estimated = FALSE
    )

#### Arguments

- `coefficients_path`:

  (matrix) A matrix where rows represent iterations and columns
  represent all coefficients (non-popularity then popularity), showing
  their values during estimation. If provided, appends to any existing
  path.

- `samples`:

  (list) A list of simulated \`iglm.data\` objects (class
  \`iglm.data.list\`). If provided, replaces any existing samples.

- `var`:

  (matrix) The estimated variance-covariance matrix for the
  non-popularity coefficients. Replaces existing matrix.

- `fisher_popularity`:

  (matrix) The Fisher information matrix for popularity coefficients.
  Replaces existing matrix.

- `fisher_nonpopularity`:

  (matrix) The Fisher information matrix for non-popularity
  coefficients. Replaces existing matrix.

- `score_popularity`:

  (numeric) The score vector for popularity coefficients. Replaces
  existing vector.

- `score_nonpopularity`:

  (numeric) The score vector for non-popularity coefficients. Replaces
  existing vector.

- `llh`:

  (numeric) Log-likelihood value(s). If provided, appends to the
  existing vector of log-likelihoods.

- `stats`:

  (matrix) A matrix of summary statistics from simulations, where rows
  correspond to simulations and columns to statistics. Replaces or
  extends the existing matrix and will be turned into a mcmc object from
  the \`coda\` package.

- `estimated`:

  (logical) A flag indicating whether these results come from a
  completed estimation run. Updates the internal status.

#### Returns

The \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly. Called for its side
effects.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `remove_samples()`

Clears the stored simulation samples (\`.samples\`) from the object,
resetting it to an empty list. This might be used to save memory or
before running new simulations. Does not clear statistics (\`.stats\`)
or other estimation results.

#### Usage

    results_generator$remove_samples()

#### Returns

The \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method [`plot()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/plot.default.html)

Generates diagnostic plots for the estimation results. Currently plots:

- The log-likelihood path across iterations.

- The convergence paths for popularity coefficients (if present).

- The convergence paths for non-popularity coefficients.

Optionally, can also trigger plotting of model assessment results if
available.

#### Usage

    results_generator$plot(trace = FALSE, stats = FALSE, model_assessment = FALSE)

#### Arguments

- `trace`:

  (logical) If \`TRUE\` (default), plot the trace plots of the
  estimation (log-likelihood and coefficient paths). Requires model to
  be estimated.

- `stats`:

  (logical) If \`TRUE\`, plots the normalized statistics from
  simulations.

- `model_assessment`:

  (logical) If \`TRUE\`, attempts to plot the results stored in the
  \`.model_assessment\` field. Requires model assessment to have been
  run and a suitable \`plot\` method for \`iglm_model_assessment\`
  objects to exist. Default is \`FALSE\`.

#### Details

Requires estimation results (\`private\$.estimated == TRUE\`) to plot
convergence diagnostics. Requires model assessment results for the model
assessment plots.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method [`print()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/print.html)

Prints a concise summary of the contents of the \`results\` object,
indicating whether various components (coefficients path, variance
matrix, Fisher info, score, samples, stats, etc.) are available.

#### Usage

    results_generator$print(...)

#### Arguments

- `...`:

  Additional arguments (currently ignored).

#### Returns

The \`results\` object itself (\`self\`), invisibly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Method `clone()`

The objects of this class are cloneable with this method.

#### Usage

    results_generator$clone(deep = FALSE)

#### Arguments

- `deep`:

  Whether to make a deep clone.
